Hello and welcome back to the course on statistics.
And today we're going to talk about what it means when you cannot reject the null hypothesis so breezily
we had the homework about the spoons about the factory of the spoons where you were working as a consultant
and by the way if you haven't done that homework then I highly recommend going back to it before proceeding
with this tutorial because we're going to discuss the result that we got in that homework and how to
think about it on an intuitive level.
You still definitely can follow along.
You'll be able to pick it up from here even if you haven't done the homework or even at least watch
those tutorials.
But I think it will be beneficial if you do if you have them.
Let's get straight into it.
All right so that was our challenge over there and we discussed what we're working with.
So that's our hypothesis that 18 percent or more have defects.
So just be is greater than or equal to 18 percent less than 80 percent.
Alternative Hypothesis is that less than 80 percent have defects so he's less than 18 percent.
Drew this up did the calculations so we know according to Central Limit Theorem is zero point eighteen
percent plus in your formulas that we learned in the previous section of the Course sigma is 0.3 for
calculates Sigma P had had to 0.1 5:3.
And so as you can see we can get that score Meinzer point eight.
And and so that means here we got the hat and the hat is sitting only under one standard deviation away
from me we had and for in terms of our proof.
That's actually a bad thing.
That means that we will not be able to reject the null hypothesis because as we know if you're sitting
inside one standard deviation Sixty eight percent of observations fall inside the first salivation this
way and this way.
Total 68 percent.
And so there's no way you're going to reject the null hypothesis over 95 degree.
The center of confidence if you're sitting in here you can do that if you're sitting in the tails because
we know that 95 percent ninety five point four percent fall into these two standard deviations.
That's why standard deviations are so powerful when you draw them like we know that 95 percent 4.4 percent
of observations fall into these two standard deviations meaning that if you're sitting side these tails
anywhere outside here and even a little bit inside like a little tiny bit inside you can reject the
null hypothesis with 5 percent of 95 percent confidence because there's only like a 5 percent chance
of being here.
And 95 percent chance here or there is a 5 percent chance of being here.
Fear plus a little bit not just a tiny bit but like a little bit more because you get this tail on this
side as well so.
So you get 95 percent being here plus like a little bit from here and here that's that's where where
are your 5 percent confidence.
It's nowhere near the internal standard deviation So if you fall inside the internal scientists you're
very safe to say that there's no way you're going to reject something from a 95 percent percent of confidence.
And as we establish P is equal to nineteen point twenty two percent.
So there's a 19 percent chance that it to fall inside this huge tail or it's even tails like from here
all the way including the tail.
Nineteen point twenty two percent chance much greater than 5 percent so definitely we cannot reject
the null hypothesis.
But at the same time we cannot reject alternative hypothesis either.
There is simply no such language in statistics as to say we reject the alternative hypothesis.
You can reject the null hypothesis because that's your default scenario that you're saying OK if this
were true let's test out would we come to any contradiction.
But if you don't come to a contradiction then it doesn't mean that this one is incorrect.
That just means that maybe you didn't have enough evidence and that's exactly what we say.
We didn't have enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis.
A good way to think about it is imagine that the null hypothesis.
Let's do an extreme example.
The null hypothesis says if you eat too much ice cream as much as you want ice cream then to say if
you eat all or 100 buckets of ice cream you will not get sick.
You will never get sick.
That's the world you live in and then your alternative hypothesis.
Well actually probably if you eat a lot of ice cream you will get sick if you eat over 100 bucks by
buckets of ice cream you will get sick.
So it's completely unrelated to what we're doing here.
But just as an example so let's let's try and then you go and get a sample so you go and eat over 100
a bucket of ice cream and you don't get sick.
Does that mean that you can reject the alternative hypothesis.
No it doesn't.
Like if you did get sick then you can reject the null hypothesis because you have an example of when
it's incorrect.
This is the law and you have found an example when the law is incorrect.
And therefore you've completely rejected this law.
It has to be rethought completely like this rule or like law physics or old biology that you won't get
sick.
On the other hand if didn't get sick from the all that ice cream it doesn't mean that you can reject
this alternative hypothesis just means that you have one example of one person who ate all this ice
cream and didn't get sick.
You need more and more and more examples and maybe one of them will reject the null hypothesis.
But you cannot you cannot ever reject the alternative hypothesis if you want to do that you have to
restate your problem and you have to do different tests.
You have to test this hypothesis.
The main one rather than this one so going back to what we're saying is that they have the null hypothesis
and you cannot just prove it to be correct you can prove this one to be correct you can prove this one
to be incorrect.
That's what we're doing we're saying assuming this is correct.
Let's come to a contradiction if we come to a contradiction.
This one is incorrect.
This one is correct but if we don't come to a contradiction then we cannot say that this one is incorrect
because we never assumed it was correct in the first place.
So that's that's the thing we have to keep in mind that the only thing we can say here is that there
is insufficient evidence for us to reject the null hypothesis and hopefully that's clear on what exactly
is going on here and this is this is just a way a mathematical approach to proving hypotheses are theories
and lemmas and so on that you first assume something is correct and then you try to come to a contradiction
if it's incorrect.
If this is incorrect the only possible alternative has to be correct.
It's just logical So if you assume this is correct you came to a contradiction.
It's incorrect.
The only alternative possible is correct by default.
On the other hand if you assume something was correct you tried to come to a contradiction but you didn't
come to a contradiction here it's totally fine.
This is we're saying no contradiction is totally fine for us to have picked the sample.
You didn't come to a contradiction.
Then that means you cannot say that this is incorrect.
And but also at the same time you have.
It just has nothing to do with Alter alternative just kicks in.
Only when the main one.
When age 0 is incorrect but if zero was it you cannot prove that age is incorrect and there's nothing
you can say about the alternative hypothesis might be true might not be true.
So let's let's explore that in a bit more detail.
So there we go.
That's our two hypotheses.
So what's going on here is that we picked a sample in this world we said OK this is the universe we
live in.
There is our mean of the proportion that we're testing.
We're assuming it's sitting over here at 18 percent.
Let's let's come to a contradiction and prove that this is incorrect.
If this was in the tail we would say that no it's not sitting here it's somewhere to the left and would
prove exactly what we want but we couldn't we didn't come to a contradiction so piece in here.
But the thing is that it doesn't necessarily mean that age 0 has to be correct.
We assumed it was correct and we didn't come to a contradiction.
But it doesn't mean has to be correct.
Let me show you why.
What is forget about this blue one forget about this distribution that we're testing.
What if in the reals in the real real world not in this age no age zero hypothesize we're all in the
actual real world.
The distribution looks like this.
So myu piece star or this whole green distribution is what we have in the real world.
Could we still pick this sample.
Does this sample look like it could have been picked from this green distribution.
Yes it does.
It looks like it could have been picked from the distribution because maybe it's sitting at you know
like this tail maybe 5 percent is somewhere over there and it's sitting around 10 percent and that's
totally fine.
That means it could have totally come from this distribution no problem.
So there's lots of potential distributions that could be the case so it doesn't necessarily.
The fact that we didn't come to a contradiction doesn't mean that this is correct and this is incorrect.
No it just means that in our case we picked such a sample that totally fits this distribution.
But if this is the real case and we go and pick out another sample get more evidence then maybe next
time we'll pick a sample from here which will work for the green distribution but won't work for the
blue distribution.
And that way in that case we will be able to say okay the blue distribution doesn't work.
And this movie had is incorrect so it has to be more to the left.
But for now the only evidence that we have is not suggesting that that is the case.
So that's why we say there is insufficient evidence to reject the null hypothesis.
We need to go out and get more evidence and what we need to do will.
You either pick more samples you maybe increase the sample sizes or remember increasing the sample size
will make these discussions narrower.
And so if the green distribution is indeed the true scenario you'll just become narrower look like this
like with very narrow and that means you will most likely pick a probability from here closer to here.
So making your experiment easier making it for you easier to reject the blue distribution and just keep
the green one.
Well and also maybe the grid distribution isn't the case.
Maybe something that maybe the blue disruption is the case and then you'll get closer distribution again.
Yeah so the only thing you can do in this way we structure our hypothesis testing is we're assuming
age zero is the true universe that we live in is correct.
And we tried to come to a contradiction only by comment by coming to a contradiction we can only reject
age zero if we don't come to a contradiction.
It doesn't mean we can reject H-1 just means that it could be something like this where we picked a
p hat which Yes it fits the hypothesized age zero distribution but it also could be coming from an actual
real distribution which is the green one.
And that just means we need more evidence to find out that the blue decision is incorrect.
So there we go that's how hypothesis testing works on an intuitive level.
What happens when you cannot reject that hypothesis.
You just have to state that no we don't have enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis.
And maybe you might want to offer a couple of these things you might want to test the opposite.
You might want to do this like as the original scenario the age zero and then test that and or maybe
you might want to change the value not 18 percent to another different percentage.
So you'd have to redesign your experiment.
If this experiment continuously keeps leading to inconclusive results then you just redesign your experiment
and maybe prove a weaker hypothesis or Whereas we said you do the opposite.
So there's lots of things that you can do after that.
But this design of the experiment the only conclusive result that you can hope to get out of it is to
reject the null hypothesis and keep the alternative.
There's no other conclusive results that you can get from an experiment like this.
And while we hear so it all makes sense.
I know it's it's a bit still in you but hopefully we'll have some more practice or in the course so
that you can get your hand get your kind of mind around all of this how this is working.
OK.
So the other thing I wanted to mention while we're here let's get rid of that green distribution and
let's just let's just hypothesize a little bit more.
Let's say we have green disruption here.
Question is could the distribution the blue like we were saying that ludes is true but could the real
real distribution is happening in the real world could it be this green.
Well as long as we're sitting in the earth below above the 5 percent part of the tail.
Yeah this one could be could be the true distribution.
It totally could be the true distribution.
And there's nothing stopping us from saying that that could be the case because as long as we sit inside
as long as we are to the right of the 5 percent of the tail the green one that could be the case and
this distribution could also be the real distribution.
So as long as for this distribution we're sitting to the right.
We this could be a true distribution as well.
So basically you can see that any distribution from here all the way to here could be your true distribution.
So it could be this one could be this one could be this one could be this one it could be this one could
be this one could be any distribution in between here that this pea had actually satisfice and that's
why you know we're getting more evidence you might pick up the head from here and then you cancel out
some distributions by getting out of the hat from here or by from getting from here you're kind of getting
more perhaps more evidence you will be able to narrow it down which distribution is it which we like
which group of distributions.
Every time you get more evidence you will narrow down more and more and every time you pick a larger
sample your distributions will become narrower and therefore your hats will be more extremely close
to the real me.
Whatever it is whether it's here here or here where the real real hat is actually looking.
Another thing here I wanted to mention is that if you look at this interval from here to here as we
said any distribution could be the true distribution in this interval.
And that is called the confidence interval.
But more on that later so we are going to delve into that.
Right now we'll have separate trials about that.
Just a quick heads up that that is yet to come.
So I know this was a tutorial full of information like all this intuitive information about how to think
about the distributions and hypothesis testing.
And it's totally fine if it's still fresh in your mind and you need a bit more time to process it.
Just when we're doing the next exercise and this is like quite a practical courses lots of exercises
just to try to think of these things in those terms or even you could go back to previous exercise and
try to think in terms of what are we what are we trying to prove where are we coming to current addiction.
What are we trying to reject what's the null hypothesis alternative type of what is going on here is
very helpful to think through these things in terms of no hypothesis alternative hypothesis.
What is what are we trying to reject what other contradict what occurred where why are we trying to
get a contradiction.
Things like that because it will help you just get an intuitive feel for this.
It is practically I think impossible to develop an intuitive feel for that.
Just want to Turrell you need to put in practice and that's why we have so many exercises and homework
exercises in this course to really help you develop that hands on skill and also that intuition these
things.
So there we go.
Hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and I look forward to seeing your next them.
Until then happy analyzing.